                                  Rosetta
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

by Darren Duncan <perl@DarrenDuncan.net>

PREFACE

This distribution features the Perl 5 module named "Rosetta", as well as
"Rosetta::Model" and "Rosetta::Validator" and "Rosetta::Engine::Example";
see the files lib/Rosetta.pm, lib/Rosetta/Model.pm and
lib/Rosetta/Language.pod for the roots of the main documentation, which is
in POD format, plus the Dependencies and Copyright (temporarily, also see
lib/Rosetta/Overview.pod, lib/Rosetta/TODO.pod, and lib/Rosetta/Copying.pod
for more of the same).  The distribution also includes a Changes file to
say what changes already happened, and a TODO file to say what changes have
yet to happen.  The file INSTALL should help with installation issues.  The
extra file docs/OSCON2005LightningTalk.txt contains a snapshot of what
Rosetta both was and was intended to be as of early 2005.08; it is the
pristine text of a brief talk I gave then.  The extra file
docs/OSCON2006SessionProposal.txt contains a similar snapshot for early
2006.02; it proposes a 45 minute talk that ended up non-approved.  Read
below for how to get support or keep up to date.

KEEPING UP TO DATE

My module set is constantly under development.  The canonical copies are
all linked to through my website, "http://www.DarrenDuncan.net/", on the
page called "Perl Libraries I Made" (name subject to change).

For those of you that are interested in the bleeding edge of development, I
have all parts of this "Rosetta" distribution in one or more public
Subversion repositories; these repositories only contain revisions made in
mid-2005 and later.  The "Rosetta" modules exist in 2 distinct code major
bases, separated by a ground-up rewrite process.  The first major code
base, whose development had started in late 2002 and ended as of 2005.09.28
(but for a retroactive 2006.01.13 release that was as-of 2005.09.29), is at
"http://svn.utsl.gen.nz/trunk/Rosetta-old/".  The second major code base,
whose development had started on 2005.09.30 and continues thru to the
present, is available in 2 parallel versions at
"http://svn.openfoundry.org/pugs/ext/Rosetta/" (Perl 6) and at
"http://svn.utsl.gen.nz/trunk/Rosetta/" (Perl 5).

You can download slightly older versions of all of my modules from the
public CPAN archives at "http://www.cpan.org/authors/id/D/DU/DUNCAND/", or
on my own web server at "http://www.DarrenDuncan.net/d/perl".

CPAN also extracts the POD from modules and maintains that documentation in
an organized and searchable fashion.  Their main search site is at
"http://search.cpan.org", and my own DUNCAND author page is at
"http://search.cpan.org/search?author=DUNCAND".

You can download my oldest tarred and gzipped distributions from BACKPAN,
at "http://history.perl.org/backpan/authors/id/D/DU/DUNCAND/", or from my
web server, at "http://www.DarrenDuncan.net/d/perl/archives/", right back
to the libdwg 1.0, first released on 2000 July 23.

SUPPORT

Currently I don't have any support arranged with other people, lists,
newsgroups, or otherwise.  Feel free to ask me if you can't figure things
out on your own, or another person whom you know has used this.  I may
start a mailing list for support issues later, so that users of my modules
can help each other with them.

FIN

Share and Enjoy!
